# SPIDER Project

## Scientific Paper Indexing and Definition Extraction Resource

Welcome to SPIDER, the Scientific Paper Indexing and Definition Extraction Resource. SPIDER is a tool designed to extract definitions from PDF or text files. This project consists of two main scripts: `book2gloss.py` and `gloss2def.py`.

### Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [book2gloss.py](#book2glosspy)
  - [gloss2def.py](#gloss2defpy)
- [Example](#example)

## Installation

To get started with SPIDER, clone the repository and install the required dependencies.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/basit047/SPIDER.git
cd SPIDER
cd scripts
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### book2gloss.py

The `book2gloss.py` script is used to process PDF or text files to generate a glossary.

#### Options

- `-f` (required): Path to the file to be processed.
- `-t` (optional): Type of the file, can be set to `txt` or `pdf`. Default is `pdf`.

#### Command

```sh
python book2gloss.py -f <file_path> [-t <file_type>]
```

#### Example

```sh
python book2gloss.py -f documents/sample.pdf -t pdf
```

### gloss2def.py

The `gloss2def.py` script is used to generate definitions from the glossary created by `book2gloss.py`.

#### Flags

- `-p` (required): User input designed to integrate name of the book or paper into the main prompt while generating definitions.
- `-f` (optional): Path to the glossary file generated by the first script. If not set, the default path will be used.
- `-m` (optional): The LLM model to be used for generating definitions. Default is `phi3`.

#### Command

```sh
python gloss2def.py -p <user_input> [-f <glossary_path>] [-m <model_name>]
```

#### Example

```sh
python gloss2def.py -p sample_book -f glossaries/sample_glossary.csv -m phi3
```

## Example

Here is a step-by-step example of how to use the SPIDER project:

1. **Start ollama Server:**

   Before running the scripts, make sure to start the `ollama` server. This is required to use the language model for generating definitions.

   ```sh
   ollama serve
   ```

2. **Generate Glossary:**

   ```sh
   python book2gloss.py -f documents/scientific_paper.pdf
   ```

3. **Generate Definitions:**

   ```sh
   python gloss2def.py -f glossaries/scientific_paper_glossary.csv -m phi3 -p scientific_book
   ```
